## [GETTING STARTED WITH ACTION CABLE](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/12/13/getting-started-with-action-cable)
### Responding to an action on Active Record
With the inclusion of Action Cable in Rails 5, we can easily add WebSockets to our Rails applications. This post walks through how to set up Action Cable as a response to an action on an Active Record model.

_collectiveidea.com - Dec 13, 2016_

## [SO YOU WANT TO TALK AT CONFERENCES](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/11/23/so-you-want-to-talk-at-conferences)
### But you don't know where to start
I thought it would be awesome to start speaking at conferences, but I wasn’t sure where to start. Here’s how I prepared for my first time at the podium.

_collectiveidea.com - Nov 23, 2016_

## [PROGRAM LIKE A DANCER](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/11/02/program-like-a-dancer)
### How you can learn from a dancer's reaction to feedback
The art of dancing and the act of programming are quite similar. How so? It’s the way both dancers and programmers respond to feedback.

_collectiveidea.com - Nov 3, 2016_

## [YOUR USER CAN’T CLICK YOUR FLOATING ACTION BUTTON](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/10/10/your-user-cant-click-your-floating-action-button)
### And you can fix it in one line
An easy way to make your Android app’s main action more accessible for people using screen readers.

_collectiveidea.com - Oct 10, 2016_

## [AUTOCOMPLETE YOUR RAILS FORM USING SELECTIZE.JS](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/09/23/autocomplete-your-rails-form-using-selectizejs)
### Help enhance your user's experience
When using Ruby on Rails Form Helpers, it could be useful to add an autocomplete feature to fields where users might reuse data. One way to do that is to use Selectize.js to create a dropdown and populate it with data from the user model.

_collectiveidea.com - Sep 23, 2016_

## [A NEW WAY OF LEARNING](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/09/14/a-new-way-of-learning)
### How I learned the stuff you can't find in a textbook
Looking back, I now know there are a lot of that can’t be learned from a book or tutorial. Through working with others, I was able to build on my skills in a way I wouldn’t have been able to do in isolation.

_collectiveidea.com - Sep 14, 2016_

## [HOW RAILS CAN REDUCE YOUR MONTHLY HEADACHES](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/07/20/how-rails-can-reduce-your-monthly-headaches)
### Duration’s helping hand when months have varying lengths
Months can be difficult to work with when they have a differing number of days. Rails helps out with #month, but you still need to use caution.

_collectiveidea.com - Jul 20, 2016_

## [CODE FILM REVIEW: DIVERSITY IN COMPUTING](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/05/05/code-film-review-diversity-in-computing)
We held hosted a screening of CODE: Debugging the Gender Gap in Graves Hall on the Hope College campus, and are happy with the conversations it started about the lack of women and minorities in the computing industry. The film, and the discussion that followed emphasized two important efforts when approaching this issue: exposure and support.

_collectiveidea.com - May 5, 2016_

## [MOVIE NIGHT!](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2016/04/07/movie-night)
Collective Idea and the Hope College Computer Science Department are working together to host a screening of CODE: Debugging The Gender Gap in Holland, MI. You are invited to gather with us to watch this film in Winants Auditorium in Graves Hall on April 18th at 7:00 pm.

_collectiveidea.com - Apr 7, 2016_

[2019](../blogs.md) | [2018](2018.md) | [2017](/2017.md) | [2016](2016.md) | [2015](2015.md)
