## [SHEDDING LIGHT ON THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/12/01/shedding-light-on-the-development-process)
### The parallels between the lighting design process in dance and software development
Did you know there are parallels between the lighting design process in dance and software development. Victoria Gonda, our resident dance expert and software developer breaks it down for you.

_collectiveidea.com - Dec 1, 2017_

## [USING ESPRESSO TO TEST OPENING LINKS](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/11/29/using-espresso-to-test-opening-links)
### Writing a regression test for clicking an autolink
On Android, we can use autolink to let users open links that are displayed in a text view. How can we write a test to make sure this functionality isn’t removed though? openLinkWithText is the key.

_collectiveidea.com - Nov 29, 2017_

## [MY EXPERIENCE AT DROIDCONSF 2017](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/11/24/my-experience-at-droidconsf-2017)
### Continued learning in Android app development
DroidconSF proved to be a great conference. There were so many great things to learn, and people to meet. My experience there was definitely worthwhile.

_collectiveidea.com - Nov 24, 2017_

## [THE VERY FIRST KOTLINCONF](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/11/17/the-very-first-kotlinconf)
### My thoughts on the newest kid on the Kotlin conference block
JetBrains held its first KotlinConf, and it was a huge success. With 1200 attendees, it was a great conference to both attend and speak at. There was much to learn about the language and how it is being used.

_collectiveidea.com - Nov 17, 2017_

## [SIDE EFFECTS OF CODE REVIEW](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/09/22/side-effects-of-code-review)
### There are more benefits than meet the eye
Code reviews are helpful for maintaining code quality and exchanging knowledge. They can also be a way to boost confidence and provide another meta way of educating.

_collectiveidea.com - Sep 22, 2017_

## [Java as your Kotlin Study Buddy](https://superkotlin.com/java-kotlin-study-buddy/)
Learning a language can be daunting. We know the ins and outs of the language we have been working with for years, and all the sudden we’re newbies again. We can use our knowledge of Java to better understand Kotlin.

_superkotlin.com - Aug 16, 2017_

## [BANG BANG: DRUMMING THE NULLS FROM YOUR CODE](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/08/11/bang-bang-drumming-the-nulls-from-your-code)
### Handling null when converting from Java to Kotlin
When converting Java code to Kotlin code, there’s a good chance you’ll see a bunch of double bang operators. Rather than leaving these to error, you want to make these places null safe. Here we discuss some options to handle null in Kotlin.

_collectiveidea.com - Aug 11, 2017_

## [HOW WE DEVELOP MOBILE APPLICATIONS - PT 4 - ANDROID](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/08/08/how-we-develop-mobile-applications-pt-4-android)
### Unit testing out MVP architecture
Learn to use Model-View-Presenter to define and test application behavior independent of the Android framework.

_collectiveidea.com - Aug 8, 2017_

## [MY 360|ANDEV REVIEW 2017](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/07/21/my-360-andev-review-2017)
360AnDev is an amazing Android conference that takes place in beautiful Denver, CO. Here’s a collection of highlights of the 2017 event.

_collectiveidea.com - Jul 21, 2017_

## [KOTLIN UNCOVERED: PART 5](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/06/20/kotlin-uncovered-part-5)
### Learning about Kotlin extension functions through decompilation
We can learn a lot about Kotlin through decompiling the bytecode into Java. In this post we’ll learn about extension functions, and how they work under the hood.

_collectiveidea.com - Jun 20, 2017_

## [ADJUSTABLE FORM TEXT AREA WITH THE CONTENTEDITABLE TAG](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/06/13/adjustable-form-text-area-with-the-contenteditable-tag)
### How to create a dynamic text area without breaking form styles
Finding the proper behavior for uncommon form inputs can be difficult. Here is how we incorporated contenteditable and Javascript to handle a large body of content gracefully without breaking the form styles and maintaining a good UX.

_collectiveidea.com - Jun 13, 2017_

## [KOTLIN UNCOVERED: PART 4](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/06/06/kotlin-uncovered-part-4)
### Learning about Kotlin nullability through decompilation
We can learn a lot about Kotlin through decompiling the bytecode into Java. In this post, we’ll learn how having nullability built into the type system helps us.

_collectiveidea.com - Jun 6, 2017_

## [KOTLIN UNCOVERED: PART 3](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/05/24/kotlin-uncovered-part-3)
### Learning about Kotlin data classes through decompilation
We can learn a lot about Kotlin through decompiling the bytecode into Java. In this post, we learn about everything we get from Kotlin data classes.

_collectiveidea.com - May 24, 2017_

## [KOTLIN UNCOVERED: PART 2](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/05/19/kotlin-uncovered-part-2)
### Learning about Kotlin classes through decompilation
We can learn a lot about Kotlin through decompiling the bytecode into Java. In this post, we learn about the power of Kotlin classes.

_collectiveidea.com - May 19, 2017_

## [KOTLIN: UNCOVERED - PART 1](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/05/16/kotlin-uncovered-part-1)
### Learning about Kotlin through decompilation
We can learn a lot about Kotlin through decompiling the bytecode into Java. Follow along to learn about the different things we can learn through investigating Kotlin this way.

_collectiveidea.com - May 16, 2017_

## [\#WhereInTheWorldIsVictoria](/22.md)
### My review of Chicago Roboto 2017
Chicago Roboto 2017 was a great opportunity to make connections and grow as an Android developer. There was a great community, and many things to learn from.

_victoriagonda.com - May 12, 2017_

## [MY FIRST CONFERENCE TALK](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/05/08/speak-at-a-conference-achievement-unlocked)
### My journey as a conference speaker so far
This year I had the goal to try speaking at conferences (or at least a MeetUp), and I accomplished that goal. Here’s the story of my journey there.

_collectiveidea.com - May 8, 2017_

## [DROIDCONBOS 2017 REVIEW](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/05/05/droidconbos-2017-review)
### Android takes over Boston
Boston just had their first Droidcon, and it was a great experience. There was a beautiful community, and so many things to learn. I was also privileged to share my first talk on the Kotlin programming language.

_collectiveidea.com - May 5, 2017_

## [HOW I ALMOST PUT AN IFRAME INTO A WEBVIEW](https://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/04/07/how-i-almost-put-an-iframe-into-a-webview)
### Listening to JavaScript events on 3rd party webpages
You don’t have to use an iframe to listen to JavaScript events on 3rd party webpages. Instead, the best solution just involves a little Kotlin.

_collectiveidea.com - Apr 7, 2017_

## [HOW WE DEVELOP MOBILE APPLICATIONS - PT 3 - ANDROID](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/02/02/how-we-develop-mobile-applications-pt-3-android)
### Using test-driven development to build our models and API client
Learn how to use Test-Driven Development to interact with a remote JSON API using Retrofit, Moshi, and RxJava

_collectiveidea.com - Feb 2, 2017_

## [HANDS ON WITH THE MAKER MOVEMENT](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/01/30/hands-on-with-the-maker-movement)
### A recap of our experience with this year's Winterim at Holland Christian
This year we had the opportunity to teach students at Holland Christian High School about the Maker Movement, and how to become involved in it. We had a blast covering 3D modeling and printing, circuits and micro-controllers, robotics, programming, and IoT services.

_collectiveidea.com - Jan 31, 2017_

## [TESTING AN UPLOADED FILE IN RSPEC](http://collectiveidea.com/blog/archives/2017/01/16/testing-an-uploaded-file-in-rspec)
### Uploading a file without actually uploading it
Sometime you need to test how your code handles an uploaded file, but you don’t want to upload it in your test. Luckily, there’s an easy way to handle this.

_collectiveidea.com - Jan 16, 2017_

[2019](blogs.md) | [2018](blogs/2018.md) | [2017](blogs/2017.md) | [2016](blogs/2016.md) | [2015](blogs/2015.md)
